Scott: It's really changed a lot
over the years for me
in terms of communicating with family.
A lot of that, I think, has to do with
heir acceptance of me
as a DeafBlind person.
And, you know, it was a struggle
for my family to accept that
and to figure out adaptations for me.
I think in a lot of ways I just really
weren't sure what to do or how to act.
[music plays]
Scott: That's always been kind of a struggle,
getting even my closest family
and relatives to understand
my communication needs
are changing and
my intent is just to be included,
just to be an equal.
More recently,
they've been better
about using my FM system
or texting me, but it's
still a challenge, you know, because
there’s a sense of feeling left out,
because not everybody
takes the time to use the FM system.
Not everybody wants to
take the time to communicate.
We have to find a middle ground.
We have to find a way
that might not be the most ideal
for everybody, but it does
allow for communication.
Nathalie: When I communicate
with my family,
we like to listen
to music and talk over the music.
And that makes it very hard for me
to understand and know what's going on.
So sometimes I would whisper
to my parents or whoever
is sitting next to me,
and say, “what’s going on,
what are they talking about?”
I do want to be part of it.
And they understand that it's hard
to hear people talking all at once or
in a loud sound.
I tell them what I need you to do,
to speak up or
to speak slow or whatever it is.
That way they can communicate with me.
But there are times when they forget.
And I have to repeat,
and it is okay to repeat.
Sometimes what I do is
I kind of let go
and let them have the conversation.
And if they want to talk to me,
then I will have a separate conversation
with my family member.
Chris: That is a common theme
in the deaf experience.
As conversations get more heated or happen
quickly and become hard to follow
we're told, “we'll tell you
later, it's not important.
Don't worry about it”
or, “we're just talking about this.”
Adriana, you can relate, exactly.
Again, not uncommon in our community.
I used to lean on my mother
a lot, to interpret
the conversations around us.
And when I couldn't follow a conversation,
she was the one who made sure
to explain what was going on.
And she would voice for me sometimes.
And my sister Lisa has now
taken up that role in our family.
While both my sisters can sign,
having more than just
superficial conversations is difficult.
So instead, what we
sometimes do is use a group text.
We can all participate
in the conversation through text
Interestingly, the way
we communicate has evolved.
For one, my mother,
who was by far the most
fluent signer in our family,
sadly has Alzheimer's.
She would never be able
to be a part of our group texts.
Using technology to communicate with her
is just not an option.
So we will bring an interpreter
so that I can have a conversation
with her directly.
And that's the challenge
that I'm facing with my family right now.
Adriana: Communication
in my family is not great.
It's pretty similar to Chris’ experience.
I'll see my family talking around me
and they'll always say,
“we’ll tell you later.” It's the same old story.
It's a very common
thing amongst DeafBlind people.
I'm always honest with my family
about what my needs are.
I need to use tactile sign language.
I can't read their lips any longer.
I can't even see sign language
at a distance.
And that's tough.
I have struggled through
to get to my family to open their minds
and respect my communication needs.
But I will say my mom has been great.
She always signs and interprets for me,
but she's not always there to rely on.
Thankfully, my children
do interpret for me whenever it's needed,
but I don't always want to
rely on them all the time.
So that's a challenge for me.
I want to socialize with
family members at family parties
when we're sitting around the table.
Unfortunately, I can't even see who
they are to identify them.
I can't see the foods that are
presented in front of me.
I can't hear and I can't read their lips.
I can't even see signing.
I'm often very isolated at these events.
I'm often left out.
Now, my daughter might be dancing
and hanging out with cousins
and she'll run over and sign tactilely
to let me know quickly what's going on.
And another thing that's great
is that my cousin Tony
also knowssign language,
and she will sign tactilely with me.
But it's still really challenging
for me to interact with most of my family.
I just wish that they would learn
to respect my need
for communication access
as a way to show their love and support.
[music plays]
It's not easy, but I do have
hope that one day it'll get better
for all DeafBlind people
and their relationships with their families.
[music ends]